## Data Concepts 

##### Record

Record is the defined format of data storage. The record will contain multiple attributes of different data types. Each record must be identifiable using a single attribute - referring as primary key. 

Records can be related with other records using the above primary keys. The relationship types could be one-to-many,  many-to-one. Currently one-one and many-to-many relationships are not supported in the system.



##### Primary key

A record can be identified by the primary key or unique keys of the system. 

The primary key will be the auto-incremented number by the database or a UUID identifier generated by the system. This key is the most preferred, while accessing individual records.

The primary key can be provided as part of the request URL or the request Body. If the key is found in both parts of the request and they are different, the system will reject the request.

A delete request should always provide the primary key.



##### Unique key

Unique keys are - unique values as defined by the business format. for example, a student roll number shall be a unique key to identify the student. The unique key can have more than one attribute to define the uniqueness.  for example, the marks table can have unique key combining - student id, exam id and subject id.

Unique keys are very important, to define and maintain the data integrity from the application point of view. While creating a record (POST request), if an matching record is found based on the unique key, status code of 'record already exists' will be returned. 

When updating a record without providing any primary key (PUT request without primary key), the system will look for an record based on the unique keys. If the record is found, the record will be updated otherwise new record will be created.  



##### Foreign key (many to one)

Foreign keys / reference keys are - primary keys of other table / records referenced by the current record. In some cases, self-referencing table structure also possible. .(like Employee - manager relationship represented by the single Employee table).

The foreign keys will be automatically inferred from the structure of the database. During a query, if the field list is not specified, the columns of the foreign key table will also be returned. 



##### Children (one to Many)

In some cases, it may be required that during retrieval of the record, the child records also to be retrieved. In such a cases, to identify the child relationship a configuration file is required and mapping should be entered in the configuration file. 



##### Relation (Many to Many)

In a data model, a record shall be associated with another record but will not have dependable relationship. There will be an linking table between the two records and optionally the relation can have naming conventions. 